manual/engine/ssl/README.md, before:

# Workflow Engine Encryption

DataStax Bulk Loader/Unloader can connect to DSE clusters with SSL encryption enabled.

Two providers are available:
        
- `JDK`: uses JDK's standard SSLContext.
- `OpenSSL`: uses Netty's native support for OpenSSL.

Using `OpenSSL` provides better performance and generates less garbage.
A disadvantage of using the OpenSSL provider is that, unlike the `JDK` provider,
it requires a platform-specific dependency, named "netty-tcnative",
which must be added manually to the loader's classpath
(typically by dropping its jar in the lib subdirectory of the DSBulk archive).
Follow [these instructions](http://netty.io/wiki/forked-tomcat-native.html) 
to find out how to add this dependency.

All the available configuration options are listed in the [engine configuration] section.
        
For more information about how to configure SSL encryption, see:

* The [Java Secure Socket Extension (JSSE) Reference Guide](JSSE).
* The [DataStax Java driver documentation on SSL](http://docs.datastax.com/en/developer/java-driver//manual/ssl/).

[JSSE]: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/security/jsse/JSSERefGuide.html
[driver ssl]: http://docs.datastax.com/en/developer/java-driver-dse/latest/manual/ssl/
[engine configuration]: ../configuration/

Commit message:

DAT-58: Generate settings.md documentation page from reference.conf * Add SettingsDocumentor class in dist module to drive doc gen. * Update assembly process to create manual/settings.md instead of conf/reference.conf * Refactor Main.getArgName to LoaderConfig.getTypeString * Update various README.md files to refer to generated settings.md * Create StringUtils class in commons module to house utility functions dealing with strings.

manual/engine/ssl/README.md, after:

# Workflow Engine Encryption

DataStax Bulk Loader/Unloader can connect to DSE clusters with SSL encryption enabled.

Two providers are available:
        
- `JDK`: uses JDK's standard SSLContext.
- `OpenSSL`: uses Netty's native support for OpenSSL.

Using `OpenSSL` provides better performance and generates less garbage.
A disadvantage of using the OpenSSL provider is that, unlike the `JDK` provider,
it requires a platform-specific dependency, named "netty-tcnative",
which must be added manually to the loader's classpath
(typically by dropping its jar in the lib subdirectory of the DSBulk archive).
Follow [these instructions](http://netty.io/wiki/forked-tomcat-native.html) 
to find out how to add this dependency.

All the available configuration options are listed in the [Settings page].
        
For more information about how to configure SSL encryption, see:

* The [Java Secure Socket Extension (JSSE) Reference Guide](JSSE).
* The [DataStax Java driver documentation on SSL](http://docs.datastax.com/en/developer/java-driver//manual/ssl/).

[JSSE]: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/security/jsse/JSSERefGuide.html
[driver ssl]: http://docs.datastax.com/en/developer/java-driver-dse/latest/manual/ssl/
[Settings page]: ../../settings.md
